SALARY NEGOTIATIONS ROLE PLAY

Activity Objective: When receiving a job offer over the phone, practice a sincere-neutral deflection.

It’s in your best interest not to immediately accept the offer on the phone (no matter how great the offer is!).

Best to exercise gratitude, ask to see the offer details in writing, and seek some reasonable time to review the offer (e.g. avoid negotiating over the phone on the initial offer call). 

Role Play Script:
Coach/Recruiter:  Hi, this is _______ from X Company. Do you have a moment to chat?
Software Engineer #1:  Yes, I have a moment to chat.
Coach/Recruiter:  I spoke to the hiring team and we would love to extend you an offer! Would like to get you to commit over the call while we get you some details.  
Software Engineer #1: This is great news!  Thank you for the offer, I am very excited to learn more about this opportunity at Company X.  Is it possible to send me the offer details over email so that I may review it?  (Note: For leverage, you can share that this is a big life decision and you will need time to review this with your family….)
Coach/Recruiter:  Sure can do!  However, we will need a response as soon as possible.
Software Engineer #1: I understand, and would love to sign. As soon as I’ve had a chance to review the relevant details, I can get back to you in a timely manner.  Would it be okay if I followed up with you by the end of next week <insert date… 1 week is ample time>.
Coach/Recruiter:  That works!  Look forward to hearing from you then.  

*Get off the phone, and send a follow-up thank you email.

Other Tips:
Maintain BALANCE:
Don't want to be super excited about the company because there goes any leveraging power you have.
Don’t want to show that you are super disappointed because then that means you will not be motivated to join. 
But you DO want to show that you are excited about the company, team, mission, product.

You are at an ADVANTAGE: 
Understand that at this point, the company has spent so much time and money on recruiting you that they are already invested and extremely interested in you!
The hiring manager wants to get started with onboarding & training to keep up with project deadlines, and alleviate overworked teammates. 
Company is worried about losing money by further investing time & resources in interviewing.

Next Steps:
Once you receive the written offer letter or any offer details (may be in the form of email or text message), please complete this Outco Job Offer Form.  
Upon filling out the form, you will be given an option to schedule a 1:1 meeting with an Outco Coach for negotiations support. 
Since job offers are time sensitive, it is important to provide the Outco team with ample notice so that you can also respond to your potential employer in a timely manner.  

To start drafting your salary negotiations/counter offer email, see this document.

For Additional Negotiations Resources, visit the Negotiations section on Teachable. 